
Kevin Zhang
January 28 at 9:47pm ·
“hey, do you remember what color the uchicago graduation caps are?
and the tassel color if you remember?”
That was Victor Wang's last Facebook message to me on May 22, 2014, and as I write this I regret that I never quite remembered to answer him before finding out earlier this week that he had suddenly passed away.
I first met Victor in the Fall of 2013 after being roped into joining some urban exploration shenanigans during the wee hours by Jim Duehr and some other friends of mine. At the time I had already graduated from UChicago and was busy pursuing a master’s degree up at Loyola, but somehow I was convinced to ditch my biochemistry homework and make the hour-plus trip down the Red Line to my alma mater and tag along. I’m glad I did.
Victor and I hit it off immediately after we met due to a mutual interest in technology – he was majoring in computer science, I had graduated with a degree in CS, and he, always the fast learner and quick study, never ran out of technical questions to ask me about software, programming, and system administration stuff. But I learned just as much as him about hardware – at the time he was – and still is – one of the most creative and prodigious hardware hackers I’ve ever had the privilege of knowing. From 3D printing to Arduinos to good old-fashioned woodworking, Victor knew it all. He would’ve put many engineering students from other schools – schools that, you know, actually had engineering programs – to shame. After all, we are talking about someone who more or less singlehandedly engineered a way to put a life-size TARDIS on top of Searle (a glorious achievement that lives on at http://ucsvna.org/2014/03/10/tardis-on-searle.html). But you’d never know it, because Victor was so humble. Everything he did was for fun and learning, not bragging rights.
Our friendship drifted off after I left Chicago to move back home and start medical school, but through the many tributes to Victor that have already been posted it is clear that he was loved and valued by a great number of people up who knew him much better than I did until the very end. I’d tell you to rest easy, Victor, but I’m sure that wherever you are, you’re still hard at work hacking together all sorts of cool and crazy contraptions.





María Alejandra Llanos
January 28 at 12:13am · Chicago ·
the past few days have held a lot of remembering. I feel like there's more that I should say. I don't know if I'll ever be able to truly convey the important things about Victor, but I think that this at least tries.
One of my first memories of Victor is from working on a ridiculous idea. I had just recently joined the friend group and had no idea what was going on. I was literally pulled aside at one point and told to come with them and actually had no idea what I was getting myself into. I was then led to an out of the way location where Victor was working. He saw me, greeted me, and then handed me a paintbrush. That entire night was really rather surreal and I actually had no idea what was happening, but it felt okay. Victor’s presence and just easy joking with me while I was thrown into this project with no warning in the middle of the night allowed me to process what the hell it was that I’d gotten myself into. Overall, his presence was the only reason I didn’t wake up the next morning convinced I had hallucinated everything. The rest of the weekend pretty much followed suit, with me being thrown into working on this project knowing almost no one else, but having Victor there as a safety net if I was ever feeling awkward. He was good about making sure I was included and comfortable that weekend.
When we went camping in the Smokey Mountains, Victor legitimately saved my life. If not my life, then he at least spared me a broken limb of some sort. We were going on a search for water and all of the streams were dry. We ended up on this super not-maintained trail. The further we went along, the worse the trail became, eventually including fallen trees blocking the path to water. I was terrified, convinced that we were going to die. Victor and Jim kept me going with their terrible jokes and banter. However, at one point, I tripped and pretty immediately started sliding down the mountain. Who knows how far I would have made it if Victor hadn’t stepped in and grabbed me? Despite my belief that we were going to die out there, we did eventually find the stream and fill up our water bottles. We also got an absolutely incredible view from a spot that had been cleared of trees (specifically, the trees that had fallen and we were climbing over). It’s a shame that that was one of the only times that entire trip that Victor didn’t have his camera on him.
Once I joined the group first year, our default study location was a room in one of the academic buildings on campus. This room had a TV, computers, and plenty of things to keep us entertained. We spent a lot of time in that room studying and watching silly shows on that TV. It was also the site of a lot of our projects. We would be there working, some people on homework, some people on a banner or a piece for whatever we needed or wanted to do. Victor was always a key part of this group. He would always be sitting there, messing with a lock while the rest of us joked around. He tried to teach me how to lockpick once in that room. Just the once. I didn’t have the patience and reached the end of my attention span pretty quickly, but he still continued trying to explain it to me. It wasn’t the kind of thing where endless patience kicked in however. Once my attention started waning, his explanation started turning more and more ridiculous and less educational. We laughed about it afterwards.
For a large part of my second year, the Batcave was the default hangout location. It was in a pretty convenient central location and had enough space. To be fair however, one of the main reasons it became the central hangout spot was that Seth and Victor were both lazy and were less likely to join us if we hung out somewhere else.
There were a lot of nights when we’d be at the Batcave just hanging out and someone would suggest video games. It was always someone different. Sometimes it’d be Seth, sometimes it would be Victor, but someone would always propose it. It was often kind of ridiculous because there would rarely be anyone who really wanted to play then. If Chris was there, he might, and sometimes Victor did too, but for the most part it was just offering. However, when it was offered, it would always get turned on and always played, even if no one actually wanted to play. We’d basically play a game of who could last longer before they felt obligated to play.
When Chris or Victor wanted to play, they would usually play 007. If I wanted to play, I would usually play Pokemon Snap if I’d brought it. If no one particularly wanted to play, it would usually be Mario Kart or Pokemon Battle Stadium. One time that no one in particular wanted to play, Victor put in Pokemon Battle Stadium. We spent a few minutes trying to decide who would play. Neither Victor nor I wanted to play and we were pretty set on it, so Seth and Elliot eventually took the controllers. The issue was that Elliot knows nothing about Pokemon and it was pretty obvious. He chose a team very similar, if not identical, to the one that Seth had chosen. I hesitate to say the teams were identical because I genuinely don’t remember. When the battle started, Seth and Elliot joked around for a bit with Elliot choosing the most ridiculous moves. Victor and I were both sitting there laughing at them. I remember at one point they were alternating using Dig and Fly so that neither was hitting each other. After a bit, Seth switched out to Gengar. Elliot then proceeded to do the same. It was at this point that Victor had enough. He took the controller from Elliot. It was then that the fight got serious. Seth and Victor continued the battle between these Gengars. It was ridiculous. I don’t remember who won. I know there was a lot of talk of just quitting the fight because it was going to take forever. I do remember that I spent the entire time laughing at how seriously Victor and Seth were taking this absolutely ridiculous in-game situation that Elliot had gotten them into.
One thing that became pretty common was Thursday night drinking. Neither Seth, Elliot, nor I had class on Fridays that fall quarter, so we would get together Thursday nights to have fun. We always knew when Victor was done with his homework because he would come and have a cider. He wouldn’t stay up too late with us, because he did have class the next morning, but it was always a nice bit of time to spend with him.
Last year, I went through a phase where I was really into icebreakers, more so than I usually am. I brought them out all the time and I was always thinking of new ones. While I still love unique icebreakers, this phase lasted pretty much all year. Most people got sick of it after about two weeks. Victor was the only person who would never groan when I would suggest doing an icebreaker. Everyone else would be like ‘ugh not again’, but Victor would always be up for it. Since he was so tolerant of them, I would usually test out any new ones I had on him before I brought them to the group. Sometimes it would be in the middle of doing homework and sometimes it would be out adventuring and sometimes we would just be hanging out, but he would always take them seriously. We spent a decent amount of time pondering these ridiculous questions and they would sometimes lead to great conversations.
There are two icebreakers that I have been thinking a lot about these past few days. One was the first one that I tried out with him. This was right at the beginning of my icebreaker obsession, right at the beginning of second year. I asked what the best compliment that each person had ever received was. Victor insisted that his was silly, but I asked him to tell us anyway. His response was that once Alex Breitweiser had told him that if you took James Bond and Q and mixed them together, you would get Victor. He couldn’t explain why it meant so much to him, but it made a lot of sense. It is probably the best explanation of Victor that I have ever heard.
Another time, an icebreaker led to talking about our own different happy places. I don’t remember what the question specifically was or how it got us on the topic of happy places, but the conversation is what ended up being more meaningful. Victor said that his changed a lot, but if he had to choose it would be out exploring somewhere. That answer is one that stuck in my head as part of my image of Victor. Exploring new places and figuring out ways around obstacles and just seeing cool things was such a fundamental part of the way that I knew him.
I think that my most vivid memories of Victor are of exploring with him. He and I got paired together to show people around a decent amount of times. We were a good pair- he knew his way around and I was good at leading a group the way we needed to. Often we’d stop in some random cool location and just chat with the group, usually starting with one of my icebreakers. If it was a smaller group or one that we knew pretty well, we’d all kind of wander a bit looking around and Victor and I would just chat. He was always really witty; he usually had a comeback to whatever I said. If he didn’t, he would just kind of shrug. I don’t know how to explain it, but he had this very specific shrug that was so him. He would always make a certain face with it. The shrug mostly came out when we were joking around. He never used it when we were trying to figure something out.
Victor was always incredible at figuring things out. I think that’s why he wouldn’t shrug about an obstacle- he would try to figure it out instead. He was ridiculously brilliant, always finding solutions way better than anything anyone else came up with. He always planned things out and he always knew how we were going to do something. He may not have had all of the specifics, but he at least knew he had the tools to figure them out before he went into something.
I don't know how to end this. I miss you, Victor.





Jim Duehr
January 27 at 11:46pm ·
Too much to say. Too much I wish I’d already said.
When I met Victor in the Fall of 2013, we bonded so quickly. The first time Seth introduced us, we went exploring. Immediately, I knew he’d be someone I could count on. Even when we were in the most precarious situations, Victor had an ability to instill trust. We shared an unhealthy curiosity and a love of the unknown. He just showed up, pocket knife in one hand, flashlight in the other, and was instantly better at it than everyone we knew.
In those days, I would call him and he would always answer. He was always down to waste time and talk about dumb stuff. He had no pretentions, no problems, and no fear.
Back then, we ran around mostly at night. While everyone else was going to frat parties or bars, we were exploring. We rarely started before midnight. A couple nights a week, we would meet underneath a tree in the quad after a long day of studying and set off on some sort of adventure. An abandoned church. A locked tower. A dark tunnel. A hidden basement. Whatever it was, it was a way of blowing off steam and breaking up the monotony of the UChicago experience.
And Victor was by far the best of us.
I don’t mean that as a platitude. He was actually certifiably the most reliable, the most insightful, the most determined, and the most gifted. Ask any one of our friends, and they’ll tell you. Victor had this restless curiosity that wouldn’t let up until he was satisfied. He had this ability to find problems, hit them on the nose, and get them solved while the rest of us were still trying to find the problem in the first place.
Once he’d started something, stopping wasn’t an option. Hours later we’d walk in to find the object of his fascination in pieces on the floor, an obscure textbook or manual open to a complex diagram, and his eyes darting around. The intelligent mind behind them was hard at work.
In the Spring of 2014, he became fascinated with exploring the steam tunnels beneath UChicago’s quads. He wanted to see what was at the end of them, where they went, and what it felt like to be down there. There was just one problem: wrought iron gates secured with the best lock money can buy. The same lock that’s on the doors of the White House. But even that couldn’t stop Victor.
He figured out a way to get into the Hack Arts Lab after hours, a wonderland of 3D printers and laser cutters and a 60 inch touchscreen monitor. We spent hours in there just hanging out and talking. He spent the next few months meticulously researching and tinkering and testing, until he had successfully printed a key that would open every lock in the steam tunnels. I remember spending so many long nights sitting there screwing around, watching Leverage or Twitch Plays Pokemon or Futurama while he was hard at work. I remember when his impossibly thin and bizarrely janky key finally worked. He spent the next 10 to 15 minutes literally jumping for joy. I was sure someone would hear us and the jig would finally be up. But everything always ended up okay. He was just so good at everything he tried to do.
He was also incredibly humble. He had such high standards for himself, yet he had absolutely no interest in bragging about it. He would just look you in the eyes, twist his lips into his patented smirk, and shrug.
When our group of friends graduated from urban adventures to a serious interest in wilderness backpacking, I didn’t actually expect Victor to enjoy it. As far as I knew, he was a born and bred New Yorker. But now, looking back on it, I realize how short sighted that was. Victor was so interested in the journey, the experience, and the feeling of accomplishment, that he never got hung up on leaving his comfort zone.
Just this past fall, I asked him first among our friend group about going on a trip over winter break. He was unequivocally interested, no matter how much the plan changed. Even when our hair-brained idea to go to Guyana fell apart. Even throughout the several iterations of Costa Rica, Vancouver, Baja California, the Sonoran Desert, and finally the Grand Canyon/Zion, he was always happy with whatever plan anyone proposed. Even when it involved trudging through ice cold water and -15 degree winds for 16 miles. He didn’t care, it excited him.
When it came to the week or so before we left for Arizona, Victor was emphatic about dehydrating as much food as possible. We went to Fairway Market and bought a metric ton of fruit and meat. Alex and Victor then took it upon themselves to make a mouth wateringly delicious infant-sized mound of beef jerky. And then I subsequently dehydrated it to a cringe-worthy crisp. We still ate it.
He had a certain way around camping food, come to think of it. When the rest of us would pack food for backpacking, we would just buy a ton of these dehydrated meals from REI at 7 or 8 bucks a pop. He would either make his own meals beforehand, or bring food of his own that didn’t require dehydration. On every trip we went on, he would bring summer sausage, pasta, oatmeal, cheese, and bacon.
He would tell me that the fun in backpacking for him was in the preparation. He would challenge me: “Imagine if you have someone who would pack your entire backpack for you, and you could just hoist it on to your back and leave. Would you do it?” Of course I would always reply “no,” which is exactly how he felt about our lazy camping food habits!
And his food always tasted better, I swear. One of my favorite moments of that Grand Canyon trip is when we were just getting up for breakfast at the bottom, near Phantom Ranch, on the second day of our hike. He went to bed later, and woke up before, all of us. While we were just rolling out of bed, moaning and groaning, he was already experimenting: trying to fry sausage on our tiny little camping stoves. It was honestly delicious. The best thing I ate in the backcountry.
That night, we hiked up to Indian Gardens, a campground about a third of the way out, and I started to get worried about my knees. I started feeling this sharp stabbing pain with every step up the trail. I had pulled both patellofemoral tendons in the freezing cold weather. Victor gave me so much of his Ibuprofen that day.
During our final hike out, when we were about 3 miles from the top, he noticed how much trouble I was having with my 40 lb pack. Being Victor, he offered to hike out with Seth ahead of us, carrying both my pack and his own. It was an absurdly kind gesture, and I’m honestly not sure I would have made it out in one piece without him. It was also exactly the kind of thing he was always doing. He would offer to do these immensely self-sacrificial favors that he never saw as a big deal.
I’ll remember him most as the kind of person who would put himself at great personal risk to help others while keeping a cool head in the process. During our trip in the Smoky Mountains, when we were about 7 miles in at our campsite, he and María and I agreed to go track down a creek on an unmaintained trail so we could bring back drinking water for everyone else. Every stream we came across was dry, so we kept going. About an hour into our excursion, I tried to turn on the GPS and realized two things: it was dead and we were lost. We also started to trip more frequently. As it turned out, this trail was unmaintained for a reason! Massive dead trees lay across it every 10 or 12 feet as it wound along a steep incline made up of thousands of small rocks. Against our better judgment, we decided to keep going. Victor wisely recommended that we turn off our headlamps and flashlights to use the moonlight, and let our eyes adjust. That way, we’d trip less, look down more, and actually be a lot safer! Maria and I balked and kept our high powered headlamps pointed straight ahead. No sooner had we tilted our headlamps up, than Maria hit a rut, tripped, and started sliding down the side of the mountain. Victor jumped down after her and grabbed her hand. If he were just a little less lucky, he would have kept falling himself. But he managed to plant both feet firmly and pull Maria up and to safety. As he’d said many times since, his secret was to never skip leg day. Soon after, we found the creek, filled up, and headed back by moonlight.
He was a contemplative, thoughtful guy. I remember the nights we spent in Connecticut with Daniel and Seth, sitting all the way out on that rocky pier and talking about the future. I remember watching scary movies, trying to sneak into Ham-and-a-basket and getting caught by rent-a-cops. Those are my favorite memories of the summer.
But we also just had so much fun. He had this amazing sense of humor- dry, but very sharp. Over the summer, Elizabeth kept telling us about this “amazing kayaking place” along the west side of Manhattan. The way she described it was so ridiculous. “Is it like a public service?” “No, it’s just random people” And Victor quickly replied “So what you’re saying is, we’re gonna show up and it’s just gonna be a basement door with a guy in front holding a rusty sign with “Kayakz” spray painted on it.” So of course, we went. And it wasn’t janky at all; it was amazing. Victor and I got in a double kayak and made this pact that we were going to hunt down and systematically drench everyone else. When we came back in, Victor and I were the only two dry people among the nine of us. We got some dirty looks, and some empty threats (cough Michelle), but we survived.
Above all, I don’t think Victor ever realized how much of an impact he had on our lives. He meant so goddamn much to me and I don’t think he even realized it. I wish I could tell him.
<tardis1>
<tardis2>
<tardis3>
<tardis4>




Isaiah Newman
January 27 at 11:18pm · Chicago ·
Hey Victor,
You are one of the only reasons, I think, that I was able to make it through the fear and anxiety I had when I started at UChicago. You invited me into some parts of your world, and mine is so much richer for it.
I hadn’t known you that well in high school, but you (or maybe Seth) invited me to play Shadowrun with you the summer before I came here. We handled the first tasks you gave us horribly, with no subtlety. You took it all in stride, because that’s the kind of GM you were – you understood and encouraged absurdity in your players. You made it fun, but it never felt as though you weren’t in control of the game. We may not have gotten very far with Shadowrun, but that same spirit ran through every RPG I played with you. You cultivated a simultaneous ridiculousness and intensity in these games – from Everyone is John, to Monsterhearts (thanks for letting me eat that character sheet), to Ghost/Echo, and beyond. You introduced me to the world of tabletops, taught me everything I know about them. You gave me something that has become an essential part of myself, and I don’t think I’ll ever stop being grateful for that.
Of course, we played more than tabletop RPGs together – one-on-one Mario Party sounds like a terrible proposition on paper, but with you it was fun. Board games, of course, at The Uncommons and elsewhere.
I still remember that roof, during O-Week of first year, sitting in a circle and doing ice-breakers with you and Maria. I wish I’d gone exploring with you more – though of course there are many things I wish I’d done more of with you.
I remember going to Salonica for dinner with you and Michelle on MSI night this past fall. It’s maddeningly strange to me that this moment seizes in my mind, that this is one I come back to – I suppose such things are hard to control. It was a nice meal, if memory serves.
ASSSCAT 3000 and Whiplash with you were always great – we didn’t talk as much as we might have while in line, but it was at least nice to be there with you. I loved your sense of humor, always. You had such a clever wit, somehow both dryly sarcastic and entirely absurd.
This post is likely both too long and inaccurate, somehow. I’m sorry about that, sorry about a number of things. I’ll miss you.





Alex Breitweiser
January 27 at 10:55pm ·
I can't believe you're gone man. In my head, I still expect to walk onto the quad and see you hanging out in the tree, ready to go on an adventure. It was just too soon; if you could see it all from my eyes you'd see how much I cared about you and what great expectations I had for you. You felt as much like a brother as a friend, a kindred spirit. You had a fire within you, a love for life that tinted the world with the possibility of what could be. Never have I met someone that had such a singular ability to envision something and then bring it to pass, effortlessly and fearlessly. Ad astra per aspera; leave the back door open for me up there. I'll miss you Victor.





Alex Breitweiser
January 27 at 10:55pm ·
I can't believe you're gone man. In my head, I still expect to walk onto the quad and see you hanging out in the tree, ready to go on an adventure. It was just too soon; if you could see it all from my eyes you'd see how much I cared about you and what great expectations I had for you. You felt as much like a brother as a friend, a kindred spirit. You had a fire within you, a love for life that tinted the world with the possibility of what could be. Never have I met someone that had such a singular ability to envision something and then bring it to pass, effortlessly and fearlessly. Ad astra per aspera; leave the back door open for me up there. I'll miss you Victor.
LikeCommentShare
Kevin Zhang, Jeremy Archer, Seth Arar and 45 others like this.
Comments
Joanne Arnold
Joanne Arnold A beauiful tribute,Alex. To retrieve good memories is a powerful,way to grieve. you are wise beyond your years.
Like · Reply · January 28 at 8:45pm
Victor Jiao

Write a comment...
Choose File
News Feed

Michelle Jiang
January 27 at 10:20pm ·
Dear Victor,
The first time I met you was when you and Jim picked me up from IHouse, drove me to 57th and University, and then explained that you were going to steal a theater chair from the basement of Mandel. Despite being massively confused, I was somehow roped into helping with the getaway. I am still bewildered as to how that happened.
Bewilderment is something I am familiar with, with you. When the alarms went off in Blackstone church, I thought you were crazy. Because while the rest of us ran away from the church, you ran into the church. You were always doing that. Doing crazy things that were actually calculated risks, keeping a clear head and getting us out of danger.
Do you remember you and Alex teaching me to use a circ saw in the basement of Mandel? Methodically measuring wood, clearing off sawdust. Do you remember how it looked like when it was put together? I remember thinking it was beautiful.
I got lost with you in a lot of beautiful places. Here is what I remember: following behind you, holding onto the rails for dear life as you and Seth and I navigated the rusted stairs in an abandoned warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront. Spending an absurdly long time trying to get the exposure just right on your camera. You climbing onto a coal tank for a profile picture. How to create a light saber with a flashlight, how to do a “Kamehameha” pose.
Rice burgers and ramen at Hide-chan. Sushi nights on Thursdays with Gabi and Ellen. Walking around NYC playing fuck-marry-kill and would-you-rather. The Monsterhearts game you GM'ed, the one where Chris wouldn't stop referencing doot-doot memes. Eating crepes at night on a bench on the edge of the Hudson River.
Us sitting on the stairs at the top of Searle, 3 am, after prospie tours. We had one prospie left, and as we sat lost in our thoughts and quiet in the calm of the night, I remember thinking that I was lucky to have known you, and lucky to have had this.
Dear Victor, we were supposed to get dinner next week. Break into Rockefeller Church at the end of the year. I promised you I would take you and Seth to the abandoned Cook County hospital. Did we ever go to the Chinatown bridge? I don’t remember.
Dear Victor, Exploring will never be the same without you. Neither will sushi, ramen, or NYC. Or Monsterhearts. Or many, many things.
Dear Victor, I miss you.





Michelle Jiang
January 27 at 10:20pm ·
Dear Victor,
The first time I met you was when you and Jim picked me up from IHouse, drove me to 57th and University, and then explained that you were going to steal a theater chair from the basement of Mandel. Despite being massively confused, I was somehow roped into helping with the getaway. I am still bewildered as to how that happened.
Bewilderment is something I am familiar with, with you. When the alarms went off in Blackstone church, I thought you were crazy. Because while the rest of us ran away from the church, you ran into the church. You were always doing that. Doing crazy things that were actually calculated risks, keeping a clear head and getting us out of danger.
Do you remember you and Alex teaching me to use a circ saw in the basement of Mandel? Methodically measuring wood, clearing off sawdust. Do you remember how it looked like when it was put together? I remember thinking it was beautiful.
I got lost with you in a lot of beautiful places. Here is what I remember: following behind you, holding onto the rails for dear life as you and Seth and I navigated the rusted stairs in an abandoned warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront. Spending an absurdly long time trying to get the exposure just right on your camera. You climbing onto a coal tank for a profile picture. How to create a light saber with a flashlight, how to do a “Kamehameha” pose.
Rice burgers and ramen at Hide-chan. Sushi nights on Thursdays with Gabi and Ellen. Walking around NYC playing fuck-marry-kill and would-you-rather. The Monsterhearts game you GM'ed, the one where Chris wouldn't stop referencing doot-doot memes. Eating crepes at night on a bench on the edge of the Hudson River.
Us sitting on the stairs at the top of Searle, 3 am, after prospie tours. We had one prospie left, and as we sat lost in our thoughts and quiet in the calm of the night, I remember thinking that I was lucky to have known you, and lucky to have had this.
Dear Victor, we were supposed to get dinner next week. Break into Rockefeller Church at the end of the year. I promised you I would take you and Seth to the abandoned Cook County hospital. Did we ever go to the Chinatown bridge? I don’t remember.
Dear Victor, Exploring will never be the same without you. Neither will sushi, ramen, or NYC. Or Monsterhearts. Or many, many things.
Dear Victor, I miss you.
<chair>




‎William Loftus‎ to Victor Wang
January 27 at 7:15pm ·
Victor, the world is a smaller, and significantly less awesome place, now that you're gone. I wish I could have known you better.





‎Grace Klain‎ to Victor Wang
January 27 at 2:21pm ·
Vitya, I just want to thank you for your most creative tabletop RPG characters & campaigns, for all the drinks, and for playing the straight man to the rest of us so many times. I always wanted to go adventuring on the rooftops with you and your crew, but I never got around to it. I'm sorry. Rest well.





Alfonso Santiago Ordaz
January 27 at 12:11pm · Chicago ·
Earlier this week one of my former roommates, Victor Wang, passed away. I was never particularly close to him, especially not after having gone our separate ways at the end of our second year, but he was nonetheless a good friend and someone I'll always miss.
In light of these news I've made an active effort to remember the memories we shared during the two years that we lived together. Memories of staying up late to work on class assignments, but instead talking about cute girls or arguing about our favorite Breaking Bad fan theories. Memories of when we first met, when we would play computer games until finally ceding to our hunger pangs and making the trek to Walgreens for ice cream and poptarts. Memories of how, despite the amount of work he had for his computer science classes, he would still find the time and energy to commit to new hobbies: cooking steak, picking locks, exploring unknown parts of campus, and partaking in our campus wide Humans vs Zombies games.
In many ways these are small memories, the sort of memories you remember of someone you cared about but never kept in touch with. I'm heartbroken to have to say goodbye, but grateful to have had the opportunity to be your roommate and friend.
Rest in peace, Victor.





Seth Arar
January 27 at 11:33am · New York, NY ·
Victor, I saw you over winter break. We went to the grand canyon with five other people. It was one of the best weeks of my life. We took photos and ate twice as much as everyone else. We tried walking in the darkness, but it didn’t work so well. We carried Jim's bag a mile and a half to the top of the canyon. When I left I said I’d see you soon.
I met you in seventh grade. We weren’t good friends until high school, and you weren’t one of my best friends until college. We played video games, ate food, watched movies and TV, performed some majorly epic pranks and some tiny ones. We built robots and played Smash Bros in high school, shot foam darts in Humans vs. Zombies, told stories in Worldbuilding, and made others come to life in tabletop gaming sessions.
The first memory I have of you is (badly) singing along to your playing “Still Alive” on the piano in the middle school atrium. The piano was always out of key, but you played better on it than I did with my voice, so I tried to sing in a British accent because I thought it sounded better. It didn't. I don’t think you minded.
We talked about mostly video games back then. That was what started our friendship. You showed me the wonders of Valve, and what it meant to have to wait for a third game. When I would sleep over at your house, I’d bring my computer and sit on your bed and play TF2 or Half-Life 2 or Mount & Blade. Once I beat all of Metro 2033 on your computer while you watched. We laughed at the kid who gets on the character’s back and repeatedly tells you to “look out!”
The first sleepover we had, we got food at Hale and Hearty Soup. I still have the bean counter card from then. It’s full now. Another time, I remember your mom ordering a huge platter of sushi. I think it was the first time I had real sushi. This summer, we probably got sushi 5 or 6 times.
For a while you only wore cargo pants and sweatshirts, but at some point you stopped. I think it was when you left the Horace Mann complab. I was always envious of how clever your username is. cntsths = “can’t say this” without the vowels. I sometimes thought of you as being the banana that was your picture for years. I helped you set up every profile picture you have besides that one. I’m honored to have done that.
You taught me how to eat ramen, by using the spoon to hold the noodles and broth and then slurping to cool it down. You, Daniel, and I didn’t get to go to all the ramen places we wanted. I found some new ones I wanted you to try. Some friends showed me a soba place I wanted to take you to too.
We should have watched Star Wars together. I wanted to get you a ticket when Alex, Jim, and I ordered ours, but I didn’t know if you’d be in the city together. Remember how Dan and you and I snuck Five Guys Burgers into a theater once? Remember that time we ate the burgers, had popcorn while watching a movie, and then got ramen after? I think we went to Hide-Chan. That’s probably still my favorite place in the city.
You named the Batcave and did all the legwork to get it on Google Maps. It has 4.9 stars now, which I’d say is pretty good. Remember how we moved in and didn’t have internet for three days? And we didn’t have gas for a couple weeks? You called them and sorted it all out. We never put the nerf blaster shelves up or turned the sunroom into an HvZ shelter or did a hundred other things we said we would.
You turned grocery store trips into an exploration since you always had a recipe in mind. I wasn’t around to eat most of what you ended up making, but I should have been. It was always delicious. I had fun picking out the thickest cut bacon and making our own ramen. Hosting potlucks was a great idea.
Thank you for showing me Anthony Bourdain and BoJack Horseman and teaching me how to cook and being my GM and watching Jojo with me and Dan and always being there when I called you with ridiculous questions.
You came to Jewish holidays with me and my family. We watched Ylvis videos that were definitely inappropriate for family viewing. But you came back the next year anyway. I don’t remember what we did the first time you and Dan slept over in Connecticut, but it was a good time. I think the three of us slept in the same room.
Thank you for inviting me to the gym, even though I only went twice or three times. I would say that I’ll start working out, but I probably won’t. I’m sorry I never went to AssssCat 3000 with you. I’m sorry I made you wait for me when I was late so much. Thank you for not getting mad at me about that.
I wanted to play more tabletop RPGs with you. Remember the Call of Cthulu game you hosted? That was the first time I did anything like it. Then, we were in Josh’s Pathfinder game and you were Urist the dwarf and Solomon the potions dealer. Remember Everyone is John? The version that we played with Dan? Remember Dread and Ghost//Echo and Dungeon World and Shadowrun and Feng Shui and World of Darkness and Lasers and Feelings? You showed all of us so many games.
We’re probably the only two people to watch all of Marco Polo on Netflix. We’re probably the only two students to climb to the top of the steam plant. We’re probably the only people who think life is a point-and-click adventure game, where every door has a key and every puzzle can be solved.
I am honored to have built that Tardis with you. You get stuff done, unlike me. Once you told me that I can’t do anything unless I’m putting off something more important. It’s completely true. But you, you saw your goal and then got there on autopilot. We made those Totally Terrific Table Triangles together. Finding those jokes was some of the most fun I’ve had. Hanging out with you was always so easy, be it looking up the corniest jokes possible or exploring every building possible or eating ramen or playing board games or watching Netflix or cooking food or learning how to do parkour or going shopping or doing the dishes or just talking, which we didn’t do enough.
You were my best friend. I wish we had talked more, but even so, I knew that I could tell you anything. I told you everything.
I miss you Victor. I miss you a lot.





Devon Compton
January 27 at 12:22am ·
Another reminder to send me memories of Victor at dcompton@uchicago.edu before Thursday evening.





‎Adam Egelman‎ to Victor Wang
January 26 at 3:10pm · Gambier, OH ·
We haven’t spoken in ~4 years, and I really fucking regret not keeping in touch. Looking back on our conversations at HM and AIM chats, I honestly forgot how much of an impact you had on my life. If you hadn’t patiently helped me get through Ms. Smith’s CS and robotics classes, which in hindsight were easy and I was just insanely lazy, it’s unlikely I would have followed my passion to build and design software/tools. You were one of the first people I met who *loved* to build things, and this love was contagious; I can’t recall anyone at HM who influenced me in that way as much as you did. Reading the other tributes, it's clear I wasn't the only one.
What I remember most, though, were our conversations about the future. I don't think I met anyone before you who so enthusiastically, but also humbly, mixed their love for relentless problem solving with crazy optimistic visions of how technology will change our lives. Even though we disagreed on things and argued a decent amount (I just read over a 2 hour AIM convo where we argued over the future of BYO PCs one night in 8th grade, woah), I loved talking to you. Thank you for being there for me, and for sharing my weird and sometimes straight-up dumb sense of humor. I'm glad to hear that it stuck with both of us after HM.
You were a really great person, Victor. You were one of like 5 people in our class I thought would do something amazing and profound, and while you clearly helped many of us, it's a fucking shame we won't be able to see how far you'll go.





Joshua Stella Biderman
January 26 at 12:29pm ·
Victor and I weren't close, but he touched my life in many ways. We were a part of many of the same communities at UChicago, and I enjoyed all the time I spent with him. I looked up to Victor more than probably anyone else at this school. Most of the things I wish were different about me were qualities of his.
Victor was brilliant. UChicago is full of many smart kids, but Victor was something special. He had a genius for creatively solving problems that went above and beyond what most people would be able to conceive of. If you knew him, he was one of the first people you reached out to for assistance with a technical challenge, and usually the last.
Victor was the kind of person who was always looking to make the world a bit more exciting. He regarded the base state of the world as improvable, and heavily worked to make life more interesting for those around him. For example, two years ago, spring quarter, a TARDIS materialized on the roof of Searle in large part thanks to the hours of work he put into making that happen.
Victor saw locked doors as challenges, "do not try this at home" disclaimers as suggestions, and "Keep Out" signs as invitations. I will cherish every memory we forged, every locked door we bypassed, and every empty building we explored together.
A mutual friend of ours said, upon hearing of his passing, that he hoped that this was not goodbye, but merely that Victor had decided to go on ahead to do recon for their next adventure. If there's any sentence that encapsulates the kind of person Victor was, I think it's that one. I look forward to seeing him again, with his easy smile, a pocket knife in his hand, and half the challenges ahead already solved for me.
I wish I could have known him better.





Marley-Vincent Lindsey
January 26 at 8:11am ·
I wasn't close to Victor, but it was thanks to him that I finally got off my lazy ass and walked the entirety of the Freedom Tunnel one spring break in 2013, and that is a trip I will not forget. Otherwise it was often polite acknowledgement and enjoyable conversations during explorations of UChicago's campus, among other adventures.
However I do have many friends who've been sharing incredibly warm, happy, close, and enjoyable memories with him, and it's been both amazing and tragic that he's influenced so many people in so short a time. I'll be online all day today, so if you want to talk (especially with someone who's gone through this experience before) please feel free.
Best wishes to you all in this difficult time heart emoticon .





‎Justin Riggs‎ to Victor Wang
January 26 at 12:52am ·
Victor I can't honestly say I knew you very well, but it was honestly great getting to know you through Core Bio. You told me about the Comp Sci major, you told me about all of the really awesome stuff going on on-campus that I never would have known existed otherwise, and honestly, you taught me everything I know about bullshitting through the core. You did a lot for me without even trying, and it's hard to say where I'd be now if it wasn't for those walk-and-talks back from the BSLC. I wish I'd gotten to know you more.
I'm going to miss you dude. Rest in peace.





Nicky Dover
January 26 at 12:47am ·
Things Victor Wang has made me do (heavily abridged):
-Drive to New Jersey to sneak into and explore an abandoned and supposedly haunted mental institution
-Get to the roofs of almost every hotel in Times Square in one night
-Build a Tardis on the roof of Searle at the University of Chicago
-Actively jump for joy and yell things like "you fucking brilliant genius" more times than I have ever imagined at his crazy hacks to get around supposedly insurmountable problems
Victor was a person for which nothing was impossible. Someone would roll their eyes and propose things like "well we could hack the door" and in a week he'd have developed a way to hack ALL of the doors. He built, for everyone who knew him, adventures and life-long memories as deftly and effortlessly as most University of Chicago students make ramen. Any idea he had was likely to be more fun, more fascinating, and more brilliant than anything you could come up with, and you quickly learned to accept that.
While for anyone else, this constantly being just deftly and effortlessly the best and the most awesome would have been fucking annoying, he never had any sort of ego about any of it and would laugh off any attempts you had to call him out as the brilliant person he was.
As fun as he was on completely insane and potentially illegal adventures, he had the same knack for making anything better with his presence in ordinary situations, and I'll miss just as much as anything having him in a new roleplaying game.
With the ease with which he built memories, I am beyond gone that we've lost several decades worth of his crazy adventures and unforgettable stories. I am definitely grateful for the times he gave me, but for someone as great as Victor Wang, I will never be able to stop feeling like these were far too few.
I wish more than anything that he'd be able to read this note. You'll be missed on every rooftop I'm on and in every prank I do.
<tardis>





María Alejandra Llanos
January 25 at 11:28pm ·
last year, I went through a phase where I was more into icebreakers than I usually am. Victor was the most tolerant of them, so I tested many of them out on him. sometimes it'd be just hanging out doing homework and sometimes we'd be out adventuring, but he would always take my prompts seriously. he and I spent a decent amount of time pondering these ridiculous questions I would come up with that sometimes led to great conversations. all day, I've been thinking about these different questions. one time, an icebreaker led to talking about our own different happy places. Victor said that his changed a lot, but if he had to choose it would be out exploring somewhere.
I really hope he's found his happy spot.
see you out on the next adventure, friend.
<victor1>


Andrew Stockburger‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 10:55pm ·
Victor,
I wanted to thank you for the ridiculous times and stupid shenanigans we had together, and for tolerating me living at your place the year after I graduated. Rest in peace.





Neida Vasquez shared her photo.
January 25 at 10:05pm ·
Rest in peace Victor Wang. I will never forget how kind and patient you were with everyone. I got to know you better senior year & I quickly learned you had a fantastic sense of humor even though I think many of your jokes were made at my expense... Thanks for making me laugh and maybe introducing me to Reddit since I can't remember who started all that 💜
<victor2>





Courtney Hodrick
January 25 at 9:54pm ·
Praying for Luchang. Praying for Cronkite. Praying for Tyler. Praying for Victor. Praying for Yale, for Horace Mann, for every member of the communities I love- even if I don't know you, even if I don't even like you- to stay safe and always find the help you need. Everybody please just stop dying ok?





Adela Kim
January 25 at 9:28pm · Cambridge, MA ·
I'll keep this short. It's a truly sad day for the Horace Mann community when we receive an email with the title "Sad News"--that our classmate, Victor Wang, passed away; and that today, on Horace Mann's very campus, an Upper Division student attempted to commit suicide.
If you're struggling, don't be afraid to reach out. There's no shame in seeking help--in fact, it's admirable.
Please send thoughts to our classmates-





Edward Warden
January 25 at 8:32pm ·
Some of my earliest and fondest memories of you were the late night "study break" shenanigans. It was always an adventure featuring poor planning and camaraderie. I don't often feel regret but I wish that those early experiences were not also some of the last. I regret that many of the opportunities that presented themselves to get to know you better and get into more mischief together, were ones I passed up on.
I cherish the times we had together. I hope this not goodbye but rather recon for our next adventure. Rest in peace Victor Wang





‎Noah Lee‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 7:58pm ·
I'm getting on Facebook for the first time in over a year just for you. Nothing deep or profound to say. Only that I'll really miss you. All the times and memories we spend during senior year, whether it be AP Physics, problem sets, arm wrestling over 20 times and always resulting in a tie, or playing on an N64 emulator on my laptop together, are unforgettable. I'll miss you man.





Sam Torres
January 25 at 6:22pm · New York, NY ·
thinking about Victor Wang. we spent a lot of time together in middle school and some in high school. so many fond memories. I'll never forget how kind and intelligent you were. rest in peace man





‎Kevin Zhang‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 5:45pm ·
Victor, I only had the privilege of knowing you briefly after I had already graduated from UChicago, but the memories of the shenanigans we pulled together will live on. Rest easy, buddy.





‎Greg Swong‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 4:33pm ·
Five or six days ago I went on your Facebook page to see how your were doing. I was going to message you because I remembered what a kind soul you were from our brief time on the squash team together. I regret I didn't get to know you as well as I would have hoped. Rest in peace, Victor.





Mickey Desruisseaux
January 25 at 4:19pm ·
Despite having lived in the same apartment for the better part of a quarter and the same dorm for the better part of two years, Victor and I never knew each other particularly well, nor were we especially close. In light of that, I don't want to say too much in the aftermath of his passing for fear of misrepresenting our relationship.
But Victor was an Islander. And to whatever extent my lingering tribal machismo from high school sports still applies, the idea of losing one of our own means something primally important to me, in a way that I never thought I'd have to articulate so soon.
I'll remember sneaking into Rockefeller Chapel with Victor after midnight and marveling together at the haunting majesty that only an empty church of its kind can provide. I'll remember that he was one of the only people in our dorm who could regularly make me work for a win in Smash. I'll remember groggily swapping tales of past romantic foibles over pancakes. I'll remember his sense of adventure that saw a locked door as a mere suggestion, and his inquisitive worldview that almost always incorporated one more dimension of thinking than the rest of us. I'll remember that in the midst of all the craziness and mayhem our social circles could conjure up, he could always be counted on as one of the cooler heads to even it all out. I'll remember the joy he brought to the lives of those around him simply with his presence.
For all of this and more, I will miss him.
Rest well, Victor. To those who knew him best, I wish you the very best in this time.





Grace Klain
January 25 at 4:17pm ·
So, I was friends with the student who died yesterday, Victor Wang. In light of this I want to remind you, friends, that I am here for you. If you want to talk to me, if you want a hug, if you want to cry or if you need some help around your home or a delivery of something, please message me. Anything you need, you can tell me and I will listen, now and always. I love you all. And may Victor rest in peace.
Вчера моего друга Виктора не стало. Друзья мои, хочу вас напомнить, что я готова слушать вас когда-нибудь о чем-нибудь, как ни далеко от меня вы находитесь. Люблю вас всех. Берегите близких . . . И светлая память Виктору.





Benjamin Austin with Victor Wang.
January 25 at 4:02pm ·
I'm still shocked at the news. Victor and I were roommates in Stony a few years ago. He was a great guy and he'll be surely missed. Rest in peace, man.
<victor3>




‎Victor Jiao‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 3:49pm · Chicago ·
You were so nice and easygoing and helped me out so much last year, when I was a first year. We seemed to have lots of extracurricular interests in common. You were someone I looked up to, someone whose footsteps I wanted to walk in.
I really wish I had talked with you more. You're a great dude.
Thanks for all the help, Victor.
Here's a bit of music that maybe you would have liked.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PBHhbLdJ4Yg





‎Morgan McGann‎ to Victor Wang
January 25 at 3:14pm ·
I hadn't spoken to you since middle school and I'm kicking myself so hard right now. You were such a good friend to me back then. I was weird as shit and by all rights totally insufferable, but you saw past that.
I was going to see if you were around over break, but I didn't. I regret that so much. Rest in peace, man.





Moira Goodwin with Victor Wang.
January 25 at 2:50pm · Chicago ·
Very accurate representation - Victor with a great attitude and me looking angry. Rest easy, Victor. You are missed.
<victor4>





Devon Compton with Victor Wang and Bobby Langworthy.
January 25 at 2:44pm ·
<victor5>




Vitas Zukowski
January 25 at 2:27pm · Flagstaff, AZ ·
Victor Wang, it was a privilege to spend some of your last days on this earth with you. Without you we wouldn't have the beautiful glimpses of moments in time spent together at the Grand Canyon and Zion over New Year's that you forever impressed with your camera and skillful eye. I'm sorry I didn't get to know you better so that we might've gained strength from our mutual struggles with depression. You were a gentle, kind person who I wish could have brightened more people's lives. Ilsėkis ramybėje Victor Wang.






Jim Duehr with Victor Wang.
January 25 at 10:10am ·
Never found those caves
<victor6>






Chris Eidsmoe with Victor Wang.
January 25 at 8:45am ·
<victor7>






Seth Arar with Victor Wang.
January 25 at 12:11am ·
<victor8>





Victor Wang
January 19 at 11:45am ·
"Hark! I stab at the barbarian with my Hoplite Spear of Piercing!"
"Roll to hit, Laurentius!"
http://www.metmuseum.org/collection/the-collection-online/search/551072
